

## Introduction to Gradle configuration

Now let\'s create a Gradle project from scratch. Create a new directory [in your repository](tehtavat1.md#teht%C3%A4vien-palautusrepositoriot) and navigate to it.

Try running the `gradle `command on your computer. Please note that, for example, first-year laptops have a very old version of gradle installed. Running the command will show you which version you have

    mluukkai@melkki:~$ gradle
    Starting a Gradle Daemon (subsequent builds will be faster)

    > Task :help

    Welcome to Gradle 4.4.1.

If the command does not work **or the version is older than 6.7**, copy the file *gradlew* from one of your previous Gradle projects (from last week\'s assignments) to the directory if you are using Linux or OSX, or *gradlew.bat* if you are using Windows, and use the command *./gradlew* or *gradlew* in the future. In addition, you will need to copy the *gradle* directory and the *gradle/wrapper* directory under it from your previous project.

If it still doesn\'t work, you can start with the empty gradle project located \[here\]\[{{site.java_exercise_repo_url}}/tree/main/code/week2/EmptyProject\].

Start by entering *the* command *gradle*:

    > Task :help

    Welcome to Gradle 6.7.

    To run a build, run gradle <task> ...

    To see a list of available tasks, run gradle tasks

    To see a list of command-line options, run gradle --help

    To see more detail about a task, run gradle help --task <task>

    For troubleshooting, visit https://help.gradle.org
    ...

The instructions advise us as follows: \"To see a list of available tasks, run gradle tasks\", i.e. try the command *gradle tasks*:

    > Task :tasks

    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Tasks runnable from root project
    ------------------------------------------------------------

    Build Setup tasks
    --------
    init - Initializes a new Gradle build.
    wrapper - Generates Gradle wrapper files.

    Help tasks
    ----------
    buildEnvironment - Displays all buildscript dependencies declared in root project 'intro_gradle'.
    components - Displays the components produced by root project 'intro_gradle'. [incubating]
    dependencies - Displays all dependencies declared in root project 'intro_gradle'.
    dependencyInsight - Shows insight into a specific dependency in root project 'intro_gradle'.
    dependentComponents - Shows the dependent components of components in root project 'intro_gradle'. [incubating]
    help - Displays a help message.
    model - Shows the configuration model of root project 'intro_gradle'. [incubating]
    outgoingVariants - Displays the outgoing variants of root project 'intro_gradle'.
    projects - Shows the sub-projects of root project 'intro_gradle'.
    properties - Displays the properties of root project 'intro_gradle'.
    tasks - Displays the tasks runnable from root project 'intro_gradle'.

The command lists the available *tasks*. Gradle\'s \[documentation\]\[https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html\] describes tasks as follows:

> Each project is made up of one or more tasks. A task represents some atomic piece of work which a build performs. This might be compiling some classes, creating a JAR, generating Javadoc, or publishing some archives to a repository.

Tasks are therefore \"commands\" that we can execute on Gradle projects.

A Gradle project is defined using the *build.gradle* file located at the root of the project directory.

**You can create the file** by running the *init* task (i.e., by entering the command *gradle init*).

Select *basic* (type of project), *Groovy* (build script DSL), and give the project a name.

You will notice that after the operation, the directory now contains more than just the *build.gradle* file:

It is recommended to gitignore the *.gradle* directory. In Gradle projects, you should always gitignore the *build* directory, where all files generated by Gradle tasks are placed. Gradle creates a gitignore file suitable for the situation.

Our goal is to add Java code and JUnit tests to the project. By default, Gradle does not understand Java, but by enabling *the java plugin*, it adds new tasks related to Java compilation to the project.

Let\'s now enable the java plugin by adding the following line to the *build.gradle* file:

When we now run the command *gradle tasks*, we see that the list contains new tasks added by the java plugin:

We can now run commands familiar from previous weeks, such as *gradle build* and *gradle test*, on the project.

If we run the *build* task, i.e., the command *gradle build*, the output will be as follows

This does not really tell us anything yet. The Java plugin \[documentation clarifies this\]\[https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/java_plugin.html#sec:java_tasks\]:

\![\]\[images/lh2-1.png\]

*The build* therefore depends on two plugins, *check* and *assemble*:

\![\]\[images/lh2-2.png\]

These also depend on a few tasks. Ultimately, *gradle build* performs all of the following tasks

In other words, *the build* compiles the code, packages it into a jar file, and runs the tests related to the project.

Before moving on, run *gradle clean*, which removes all files created by the previous command.

## A sensible editor

This time, do not use NetBeans or any other IDE; instead, do all coding and configuration with a text editor.

A good choice for an editor is \[Visual Studio Code\]\[https://code.visualstudio.com\], which can be found on the department\'s computers and freshman laptops.

## Adding code to the project

Gradle assumes that the program code is located in the *src/main/java* directory at the root of the project. Create the directory(ies) and file *src/main/java/Main.java* with the following content, for example:

Then run the task *compileJava* and view the contents of the project directory with the command *tree*:

The task *compileJava* has created a directory called *build* and placed the class file resulting from the compilation inside it.

Run the compiled code by going to the directory and entering the command *java Main*:

Usually, Java code is not executed directly using class files. A better way is to pack the code into a jar file, as in Week 1, [Task 7](tehtavat1.md#7-gradle).

The jar file is created using the gradle task *jar*. Help says the following:

**NOTE:** The *gradle* command must always be executed at the root of the project directory, i.e., the directory where the *build.gradle* file is located.

Define *the location of the main program* for the task by adding the following to the end of the *build.gradle* file:

Note that the *build.gradle* file must begin with the plugins definition. If it is not at the beginning, you will encounter the following error message:

Now return to the project directory and run the task that generates the *jar file* (i.e., enter the command *gradle* jar).

You can run the generated jar file as follows (note that the file name depends on the name of your project and is probably not *gradle-test.jar*):

## application-plugin

In previous tasks, we have also been able to execute the code with the command *gradle run*.

However, this command now causes an error message: *Task \'run\' not found in root project*.

The reason for this is that the task *run* is not defined by the java plugin but by the \[application plugin\]\[https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/application_plugin.html\]. Let\'s enable this by changing the file *build.gradle* to the following format

In fact, the line defining the java plugin is not even needed now, as *the application* also contains the tasks that define it.

The command *gradle run* now causes an error: *No main class specified*.

The plugin\'s \[documentation\]\[https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/application_plugin.html\] states that the class containing the main program, i.e., *the main class*, must be defined by adding the following line to the *build.gradle* file:

Now the program can be run using the task:

It is advisable to use the *-q* option when running the program, as this prevents Gradle from printing its own output:

Let\'s extend the program so that it asks for the user\'s name using the Scanner object:

    import java.util.*;

    public class Main {
        public static void main(String[] args) {
            Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
            System.out.println("Who are you: ");
            String name = scanner.nextLine();

            System.out.println("Hello " + name);
        }
    }

If the program is converted into *a jar file* (by executing the command *gradle jar)*, it works as expected:

If the program is run using the gradle run task, an error occurs:

The reason for this is that, by default, gradle\'s task *run* does not connect the terminal to the input stream *System.in*. This can be fixed by adding the following to *the build.gradle file*:

Now the command *gradle run* works.

## Another class

Let\'s add a class to the program that allows us to calculate multiplications. Place the class in the *ohtu* package, i.e., in the file *src/main/java/ohtu/Multiplier.java*

    package ohtu;

    public class Multiplier {
        private int value;
        public Multiplier(int value) {
            this.value = value;
        }

        public int multipliedBy(int other) {
            return value * other;
        }

    }

Use the class from the main program. Note that since the class is in a different package than the main program, the package must be imported:

    import java.util.*;
    import ohtu.Multiplier;

    public class Main {
        public static void main(String[] args) {
            Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
            Multiplier three = new Multiplier(3);
            System.out.println("enter a number");
            int number = scanner.nextInt();

            System.out.println("number times three is " + three.multipliedBy(number) );
        }
    }

## Tests

Now let\'s create a JUnit test for the class. Gradle assumes that JUnit tests are placed in the *src/test/java* directory. We will place the test in the same package as the class being tested, i.e. in the file *src/test/java/ohtu/MultiplierTest.java*

    package ohtu;

    import static org.junit.Assert.*;
    import org.junit.Test;

    public class MultiplierTest {

        @Test
        public void multiplicationWorks() {
            Multiplier five = new Multiplier(5);

            assertEquals(5, five.multipliedBy(1));
            assertEquals(35, five.multipliedBy(7));
        }

    }

Let\'s try to run the tests with the command *gradle test*. This results in a large number of error messages. The errors occur during the *compileTestJava* task, i.e., during the compilation of the tests:

The reason for the errors is that our project does not recognize the code imported by the tests:

The JUnit library is therefore *a dependency* during the compilation of our program\'s tests.

## Dependencies

In practice, dependencies are jar files that contain the code of the auxiliary libraries used, in this case JUnit. The advantage of Gradle, as with Maven, is that the programmer does not need to download the dependencies themselves; it is sufficient to define the project\'s dependencies in the *build.gradle* file, and Gradle will automatically download the dependencies if they are not found on the machine.

The required definition is as follows:

The first part, *repositories*, tells Gradle where to look for dependencies. \[jcenter\]\[https://bintray.com/bintray/jcenter\] is one of the places where a large number of libraries used by Gradle and Maven are stored. Another alternative location for searching for dependencies is \[mavenCentral\]\[https://search.maven.org\]. The repositories section can also be used to specify multiple locations where Gradle will search for dependencies defined in the project.

The second part specifies that version 4.13 of the JUnit library will be used in the testImplementation phase. In practice, this means that when compiling the test code, Gradle will add JUnit *to the classpath*.

An alternative syntax can also be used for the line specifying the dependency to be added, where the dependency and its version are expressed as a single string:

When we rerun the *gradle test* command, everything works.

Let\'s break the test again and make sure that the tests detect the error.

The new version of JUnit \[JUnit5\]\[http://junit.org/junit5/\] was released some time ago after years of anticipation. JUnit5 has many interesting new features, but unfortunately, tool support is still so incomplete that we have to use the old JUnit in the course.

