

*Grading complete, scores visible in Moodle.* Please note that in Moodle, the score for assignment n is visible under assignment n+1.

### Story related to the assignments

The course feedback system Kurppa has proven to be a success, and in addition to the University of Helsinki (HY), the application has also been adopted by the University of Tampere (TAU) and the University of Jyväskylä (JYU). The application is currently being further developed by the three universities. Each university has its own Kurppa backlog and product owner. The development work is divided into three-month sprints. Each sprint begins with a week-long planning session, during which each product owner defines the most important user stories in their backlog in more detail and estimates them. After this, the product owners vote on which user stories will be taken on in the next sprint.

Development work is organized so that Kurppa\'s front end, i.e., browser-side functionality, is implemented by the HY team, the back end, i.e., server-side code, by the TAU team, and integration with the Sisu system by the JYU team. During the first two months of the sprint, each team develops the code within its own area of responsibility. Each university has its own Git version control system, to which the code is synchronized at the beginning of the sprint. Development is carried out in each university\'s own Git.

Within the sprint, each university team works in such a way that the team\'s Kurppamestari (the name used by the teams for the Scrum master) plans the technical tasks required for each user story, i.e., the tasks and the changes required in the code and architecture. He or she also assigns a coder from within the team to each task. If a coder does not understand the content of the task assigned to him or her, he or she asks the Kurppamestari, who, if necessary, checks with the Product Owner at his or her own university.

To optimize operations, each coder usually works on several technical tasks at the same time. The coder creates a feature branch for each task in version control to avoid confusion with other coders during the sprint. The feature branches are merged into each university\'s own Git when the sprint is completed. This often happens at the last minute.

The last month of the sprint is spent integrating and testing the code. At this stage, the code is copied from each university\'s own version control system to HY\'s Git, where the rest of the sprint is completed. Testing is outsourced to a remote testing team purchased from Rovaniemi. Testing is mainly done by clicking on the user interface. At the end of the sprint, a new version of Kurppa is released. At each university, a separate IT team is responsible for putting Kurppa into production and running it. At the University of Helsinki, for example, this team is TIKE\'s DevOps team, i.e., the IT Center\'s DevOps team. When a new version is released, they receive the code from their university\'s Kurppa team and launch it on their university\'s server.

Every fourth Kurppa sprint is a so-called quality sprint. During this sprint, no new features are implemented in the system (except for the urgent surprise stories mentioned in the next paragraph), and the work focuses on paying off technical debt and fixing bugs found by the testing team during the previous three sprints.

From time to time, the university\'s senior management becomes aware of the angry feedback Kurppa receives on Jodel or even in Helsingin Sanomat. This often leads to Kurppa\'s ongoing sprint being filled with user stories that are defined as extremely urgent and must be implemented immediately. This often leads to Kurpa\'s ongoing sprint being filled with user stories that are defined as extremely urgent and must be implemented immediately.

After a promising start, Kurppa\'s development work has slowed down at an alarming rate, and unpleasant quality issues have also been detected in the product. The morale of the coders is also declining. For example, no one really wants to wear the Kurppa hoodies that were once a source of pride, at least not in public places.

### Task 1

How would you develop Kurppa\'s application development process in accordance with Scrum, Lean principles, the large-scale agile methods discussed in section 5 of the course, and the principles of the Agile Manifesto? Justify each development proposal.

*The assignment will be evaluated by Ville Saastamoinen. If necessary, you can ask about your own evaluation at etunimi.sukunimi@helsinki.fi or on Discord.*

The assignment will be assessed based on seven points/development proposals:

- Too many product owners / Product owners define stories for sprints (1p)
- Each university has its own backlogs / teams are not cross-functional (0.5 points)
- Sprints are too long / New user stories are added to the sprint during the sprint (0.5 points)
- The sprint master defines the technical tasks for user stories / The sprint master assigns the task to a person (0.5 points)
- Multiple tasks are performed at the same time (0.5 points)
- More frequent production exports / CI/CD pipeline available to teams (1p)
- Testing outsourced / testing takes place too late (0.5 points)

Each point must be reasonably justified. Without justification for each point, a maximum of half the points could be awarded. Justification such as \"Sprints must be 1-4 weeks long because Scrum says so\" is not sufficient. In this case, the justification should explain why Scrum says so: \"Sprints must be 1-4 weeks long so that features that add value for the customer can be released as often as possible. The customer\'s changing needs must also be taken into account more quickly, and the development of the wrong product must be minimized.\"

We have tried to interpret the answers as accurately as possible. Points could therefore be awarded for interpreting \"between the lines,\" so to speak.

In sections separated by a slash, both points must be mentioned and justified in order to receive full points.

Sample answer:

Kurppa is currently being developed by three different teams. We can consider switching to Large Scale Scrum, or LeSS, especially the version designed for situations where a product is being developed by 2-8 teams. According to LeSS, when developing a single product, there should be one product owner and one product backlog. This would simplify communication, prioritization, and decision-making, and enable a consistent focus on delivering value to the customer. However, each team could still have its own sprint backlogs, which would give them flexibility and the opportunity to focus on the specific needs of the team with the selected user story. However, teams should continue to communicate and collaborate as needed.

The definition of user stories for a sprint should be done together with the team and not just by the product owner. The product owner may be a person with no technical experience, in which case they will not be able to estimate the time required for a user story without the support of the team.

According to LeSS, teams should be cross-functional and full-stack, meaning they have all the necessary expertise to create an entire product. This means moving away from a model where each university team focuses on one area and bringing front-end, back-end, and integration experts into each university team.A cross-functional team enables faster and more efficient work, improves project quality and flexibility, and reduces risks and dependence on external factors.

Three-month sprints are too long. Sprints should be 1-4 weeks long so that features that add value for the customer can be released as often as possible. This also allows for quicker response to any changes in customer needs and minimizes the development of the wrong product. Poorly defined user stories that come with angry feedback should not be included in the middle of a sprint. These should be moved to the product backlog to await thorough definition, thus ensuring the teams\' peace of mind.

One development proposal is to move towards self-directed teams, where team members can choose their own tasks and define the related technical details together. The Scrum Master could act as a support person for the team, helping to solve any problems and providing support when needed. This change would give team members more responsibility and decision-making power in planning and implementing their own work. The role of the Kurppamestari would focus more on coordinating the Scrum process and team activities than on technical work. It is also important to note that the Kurppamestari does not necessarily need to have in-depth technical expertise, but rather their strengths may lie in process management and teamwork.

We will move to handling individual tasks one at a time to avoid excessive multitasking and ensure high-quality work performance. In addition, the team could consider implementing Kanban\'s \"Work In Progress\" (WIP) limits. For example, setting a WIP limit of 1-2 tasks for each team member ensures that everyone can focus on one task at a time and avoids overloading the workload.

The release of new versions of Kurpa is slow and requires a lot of manual work. This means that it often takes too long for customers to get new features and improvements, as new versions are only released every three months. This long release cycle limits the team\'s ability to respond quickly to customer needs and can result in customers having to wait too long for the improvements they want. Implementing a CI/CD pipeline helps to significantly reduce these delays. When new versions can be released automatically and more frequently, the team can focus more on development itself and less on manual testing and release preparation. This enables a faster response to customer needs and ensures that customers get new features and fixes as soon as possible. Testing should take place during application development and not just at the end by an external team clicking through the user interface. Each team could switch to the Test-Driven Development (TDD) model to tightly integrate testing into the development process and ensure that code is tested early and regularly. The advantage of TDD is that it forces tests to be written before the actual code is written, which ensures that tests are closely integrated into the development process. This helps to detect errors and problems at an early stage, which can reduce testing delays.

In addition, tests should be included as part of the CI/CD pipeline. This means that automated tests are performed with every new code update and before new versions are released. This ensures that the code is continuously tested and any errors are detected quickly and can be fixed immediately. By combining TDD and the CI/CD pipeline, we can ensure high quality and stability in application development and release.

### Task 2

How would you develop Kurpa\'s technical practices and quality management methods in application development in accordance with the principles presented in the course? Justify each of your development proposals. Do not refer to your answer to the previous task in this answer, as the tasks will be checked by different people.

*The assignment will be assessed by Matti Luukkainen. If necessary, you can ask about your own assessment at etunimi.sukunimi@helsinki.fi or on Discord.*

#### Assessment criteria

Points were awarded for the following development suggestions:

- Uniform version control for all universities (0.5p)
- Continuous integration in use (1.5 points)
  - Code is integrated into the main branch frequently
  - Different levels of automated testing (unit, integration, system testing)
  - More sensible branch usage (either Trunk-based or short-lived feature branches)
- Responsibility for testing lies with the development teams (0.5p)
- Improving the application release process (1.5 points)
  - Use of CD pipeline
  - Responsibility for release assigned to teams (i.e., elimination of \"DevOps\" teams)
  - Quality control in production (A/B testing or canary release)
- Continuous attention to internal code quality and elimination of quality sprints (0.5p)
- Mention of some kind of review practice (0.5p)
  - either manual, e.g., pull requests, or automated, such as Pylint
- Modifying the team structure so that teams are cross-functional, i.e., multi-skilled (0.5p)
- Minimization of parallel work by coders (0.5p)
- Well-defined Definition of Done (0.5p)
- Increasing team autonomy, e.g., in terms of software architecture (0.5 points)

Points could also be awarded for other good ideas.

The quality of the reasoning affects the points. Since the maximum number of points for the task is 4.5, not all of the above points need to be taken into account in order to get full points.

### Task 3

Imagine that you are in the early stages of developing the Kurppa system. You have been appointed as the product owner for Kurppa. Write two good user stories for Kurppa. You can come up with the functionality they describe yourself. One of the user stories is such that the functionality it describes will be implemented in the next sprint. The other story will be implemented in two years at the earliest.

Explain why the stories you have written are good.

*The assignment will be evaluated by Hannah Leinson. If necessary, you can ask about your own evaluation at etunimi.sukunimi@helsinki.fi or on Discord.*

#### Assessment criteria

The assignment was graded as follows: - User story 1 for the next sprint (3.7 points): - High priority story (0.5 points) - The story is written clearly and in the customer\'s language. No technical jargon. (0.3 points) - Acceptance criteria exist. Reasonable in relation to the story, testable. (1 point) - INVEST mentioned (0.4 points) - INVEST areas implemented in the written story (1.2 points) - Technical tasks mentioned, division of tasks is the responsibility of the development team (0.3 points)

- User story 2 two years ahead (2 points):
  - A broader story (at the epic level) and less precise than story 1, but still reasonable. If there are acceptance criteria, they are rough. (1p)
  - Not a high-priority story (e.g., according to DEEP criteria) (0.3 points)
  - No estimation / vague work estimate (0.2 points)
  - Not yet testable (0.2 points)
  - Not INVEST (0.3 points)
- The quality of the justification affects the points.

=5.7 points / 4.5 points. In other words, not everything needs to be included in the answer to get full points.

#### Model solution

**User story for the next sprint:**

Let\'s assume that the site framework and project setup have already been implemented. The front page displays a list of courses that are stored in the database. As a user, I can see the course feedback form for the course I have selected in the student view on the site (1 story point).

**Acceptance criteria:** - The site opens on a web page - By clicking on the course name, I can access the course feedback page. - There is a feedback form with one multiple-choice question and one free text field. - There is a \"Send\" button that displays \"Sent\" on the screen but does not send the information.

Acceptance criteria are implemented as robot tests. Technical tasks and their estimation are discussed with the development team.

**Justification:**

The story is high on the priority list in the DEEP-compliant backlog and will be included in the next sprint. For this reason, the story must be small enough and comply with the INVEST principles. The story originates from a larger epic story, \"As a student, I can give course feedback,\" which was broken down into several smaller stories that are independent of each other. The story is sufficiently well-defined and serves as a promise (negotiable). Seeing the feedback form in its rough form is valuable to the customer. The story has been estimated with the developers in comparison to the story from the previous sprint, which had a similar workload. The story has been given clear acceptance criteria, which also serve as Robot Framework tests (Testability).

**User story 2, two years ahead:**

As a teacher, I can use AI to combine the course feedback I have received into a single, easy-to-interpret report.

**Justification:**

A story defined this far into the future can be broad and epic in scope. It has a very low priority, at the bottom of the backlog in accordance with DEEP. For this reason, the story does not yet need to be defined in more detail, estimated, or have acceptance criteria, and it does not need to comply with INVEST.

### Task 4

(a) Beginning programmers are often warned that it is not a good idea to copy and paste the same piece of code in multiple places within a single program. What is the reason for this \"prohibition\"? Are there also situations where copy and paste may be acceptable or even recommended?

(b) The course discusses two different ways of utilizing version control: feature branches and trunk-based development. Explain what these are. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of both.

(c) The software uses a relational database. In addition, the software retrieves weather data from the Finnish Meteorological Institute\'s open interface. Explain how automated testing of the software should work in relation to the database and interfaces.

*The assignment will be evaluated by Valtteri Kantanen. If necessary, you can ask about your own evaluation at etunimi.sukunimi@helsinki.fi or on Discord.*

#### Assessment criteria

Points were awarded for mentioning the following in the assignment:

- Point a (1.5 points):
  - One justified reason for avoiding copy-pasting (0.5 p.)
  - Another justified reason for avoiding copy-pasting (0.5 p.)
  - One situation in which copy-pasting within the same program may be justified (0.5 p.)
- Point b (1.5 points):
  - The basic principle of feature branches (0.25 points)
  - At least one justified advantage of using feature branches (0.25 p.)
  - At least one justified disadvantage of using feature branches (0.25 p.)
  - The basic principle of trunk-based development (0.25 p.)
  - At least one justified advantage of using trunk-based development (0.25 points)
  - At least one justified disadvantage of using trunk-based development (0.25 p.)
- Point c (1.5 points):
  - Explained the use of a test database (0.25 p.)
  - At least one justified reason for using a test database (0.25 p.)
  - Explained the operating principle of stubs and/or mock objects (0.25 p.)
    - If the use of stubs and/or mock objects was mentioned but their operating principle was not explained, 0.125 p.
  - One advantage of using stubs and/or mock objects (0.25 p.)
  - Another advantage of using stubs and/or mock objects (0.25 p.)
  - Mention of the differences between unit testing and integration and system testing in terms of databases and interfaces (0.25 p.)

The quality of the reasoning affects the points. Each sub-section is separate, so an excellent answer in one sub-section cannot compensate for a missing answer in another sub-section, for example.

In almost all sections, a wide variety of answers were accepted, as long as they were justified. The model solution below is one way to answer the question that will earn full points.

#### Model solution

**(a)** Using code that has been copied to multiple locations can be problematic if the functionality of the copied code needs to be changed. In this case, the changes must be made separately in each location, which complicates application maintenance and is prone to errors. If the functionality were isolated, for example, in its own function, it would be sufficient to make the change in only one place.

Another reason to avoid copy-pasting is that excessive use of copy-pasting may indicate a low degree of cohesion. This means that each method, class, or component should focus on implementing a specific individual functionality. A similar principle is the single responsibility principle.

However, in certain situations, the use of copy-paste may be justified. For example, when building an MVP (*minimum viable product*) version, copy-paste can be used to speed up development. In this case, so-called technical debt is incurred. If the code is to be used permanently, it should be refactored later. Conversely, if the code never ends up in production, developers will not have had to spend time on refactoring.

**(b)** Feature branches are a version control method in which changes are implemented in separate version control branches. For example, a single developer or development team makes changes related to a single user story in a single branch, and when the functionality is complete, that branch is merged into the main branch. The advantage of feature branches is that changes always remain in their own branch before merging, so the main branch cannot be broken during development by changes in the feature branch. One downside is that merging branches often causes conflicts. This is especially true when the branches are long-lived and there are many of them. Resolving conflicts can be laborious and time-consuming: in the worst case, the result can be a small integration hell, or merge hell.

In contrast, trunk-based development does not use long-lived feature branches; instead, changes are made directly to the main development branch (*trunk*). A separate release branch may be created for published versions. The advantage of this method is that it forces developers to make small changes that are easy to merge into the main branch. This prevents problems related to the integration of feature branches from arising. However, the challenge is that developers must be very disciplined and systematic to keep the main branch functioning properly and prevent bad code from reaching other developers.

**(c)** Unit testing of software can utilize stub components, which can be either stubs or mock objects. For example, the return values of method calls can be hard-coded into stubs. Mock objects can be used to monitor, for example, how many times and with what values the methods they define have been called.

The advantage of using stubs and mock objects is that they allow the software to be tested without the tests being dependent on external factors (such as the functionality of data connections). This makes the tests easy to repeat and faster to run. In addition, the constantly changing weather data from the Finnish Meteorological Institute\'s interface can be easily replaced with hard-coded data, allowing for extensive testing of different situations and making the test results easily predictable (unlike constantly changing weather data).

The purpose of integration and system testing is to test individual functions or classes of larger entities. In this case, it is important to use a test database that is separate from the production database for tests that require a database. Using the production database for testing can lead, for example, to tests modifying or deleting real data. Similarly, using a test database makes testing much easier, as it is easier to control the database space. The test database should contain comprehensive realistic data so that different situations can be tested as extensively as possible.

### Task 5

Let\'s go back in time a little. Behind the link https://gist.github.com/mluukkai/9093b1b3715b556ce85af32b571fb6de is code from the early days of Kurppa\'s development. The development team\'s velocity was at its peak at the beginning of the project, but Kurppamestari has noticed that the pace has slowed down during previous sprints. The reason for the slowdown is diagnosed as technical debt that has accumulated in the code.

Refactor the Course class in the code to improve its internal quality by applying design patterns or other solutions appropriate to the situation.

*The assignment will be assessed by Riku Rauhala. If necessary, you can ask about your own assessment at etunimi.sukunimi@helsinki.fi or on Discord.*

#### Assessment criteria

Points are awarded for the following aspects of code refactoring:

- file handling
  - functionality transferred to its own class (2 points)
  - functionality not transferred but separated into methods
    - file reading done in its own method (0.5 points)
    - writing to file separated into a method (1 point)
- elimination of repetition
  - retrieving feedback (1p)
  - printing a summary (1p)
- More appropriate naming of variables (1p)
  - `p `-\> `feedback`
  - `x`, `y `-\> `lower limit`, `upper limit`, etc.
  - `x `-\> `sum, `etc.
  - Full points require at least two of these to be taken into account or sensible naming of variables in possible own functions/classes

A good attempt may earn half a point. In addition to items that are scored directly, a maximum of one point has been awarded for other relevant improvements. Possible additional points include, for example:

- type annotations
- docstring
- sensible helper functions
- improved exception handling
- creation of separate classes, e.g. Student or Feedback

If the code has not been corrected but the deficiencies have been listed, a maximum of one point can be awarded for the assignment. *The maximum number of points* for the assignment is 4.5, so everything does not have to be perfect to get full marks.

#### Model solution

A solution that earns full points might look like this, for example:

    class FileHandler:
        def __init__(self, file_name):
            self.__file = f"{file_name}.csv"

        def read(self):
            feedback = []
            try:
                with open(self.__file, "r") as file:
                    for row in file:
                        parts = line.split(";")
                        self.__feedback.append({
                            "student": parts[0], 
                            "grade": int(parts[1]), 
                            "comment": parts[2]
                        })
            except FileNotFoundError:
                print("File not found")
            except Exception:
                pass
            return feedback

        def save(self, feedback):
            with open(self.__file, "w") as file:
                for feedback in feedback:
                    file.write(f"{feedback['student']};{feedback['grade']};{feedback['comment']};\n")

    class Course:
        def __init__(self, name, year):
            self.__name = name
            self.__year = year
            self.__filehandler = FileHandler(name)
            self.__feedback = self.__filehandler.read()

        def give_feedback(self, new_feedback):
            if self.get_feedback(new_feedback["student"]):
                return False
            comment = new_feedback["comment"] if "comment" in new_feedback else ""
            self.__feedback.append({
                "student": new_feedback["student"], 
                "grade": new_feedback["grade"], 
                "comment": comment
            })
            self.__file_handler.save(self.__feedback)
            return True

        def modify_feedback(self, modified_feedback):
            feedback = self.get_feedback(modified_feedback["student"])
            if feedback is None:
                return False
            feedback["grade"] = modified_feedback["grade"]
            feedback["comment"] = modified_feedback["comment"] if "comment" in modified_feedback else ""
            self.__file_handler.save(self.__feedback)
            return True

        def get_feedback(self, student):
            for feedback in self.__feedback:
                if feedback["student"] == student:
                    return feedback
            return None

        def search_by_criteria(self, criteria):
            return [feedback for feedback in self.__feedback if criterion(feedback)]
        
        def search_feedback_containing_comment(self):
            return self.search_by_criteria(lambda feedback: len(feedback["comment"]) > 0)

        def search_feedback_with_grade(self, grade):
            return self.search_by_criterion(lambda feedback: feedback["grade"] == grade)

        def search_feedback_with_rating_between(self, lower_limit, upper_limit):
            return self.search_by_criteria(lambda feedback: feedback["rating"] >= lower_limit and feedback["rating"] <= upper_limit)

        def summary(self):
            print(f"{self.__name}, {self.__year}")
            print("============")
            print("feedback was given", len(self.__feedback), "pieces")

            sum = sum([feedback["grade"] for feedback in self.__feedbacks])
            
            print("average ", sum / len(self.__feedback))

            print("\nDistribution")
            for grade in range(5, 0, -1):
                print(f"{grade}: {len(self.get_feedback_with_grade(grade)) * '*'}")

            print("\ncomments")
            for feedback in self.__feedback:
                if len(feedback["comment"]) > 0:
                    print("  " + feedback["comment"])

