

### Task 1 *Scrum and user stories* (6 points)

(a) An important underlying principle of Scrum is adaptation. What does this mean, and how does Scrum promote adaptation? 1.5p

(b) One of the events defined by Scrum is the sprint planning meeting. What happens at this meeting and who participates in it?

(c) What is a user story? 1.5p

(d) What makes a good user story? 1.5p \### Task 2: *Estimation* (2p)

(e) What is meant by estimation? (0.25p)

(f) Why is estimation performed in software projects? (0.5p)

(g) How is estimation typically done in agile software projects? (0.75p)

(h) What is the NoEstimates movement? (0.5p) \### Task 3: *Lean Startup* (2p)

(i) What is the Lean Startup method? Where and how is it used? (0.75p)

(j) What does the term Minimal Viable Product (MVP) mean? (0.75p)

(k) What about A/B testing? (0.5p) \### Task 4: *Quality Management* (5p)

(l) What do verification and validation mean?

(m) What is meant by internal software quality?

(n) What do continuous integration, continuous delivery, and continuous deployment mean?

(o) What is a feature toggle/flag and what are they used for?

(p) What is meant by the term technical debt? What are the disadvantages/advantages of technical debt?

### Task 5 (5 points)

(a) In connection with agile methods, there is often talk of incremental architecture. What does this mean? What are the advantages/disadvantages of this approach?

(b) What is meant by the term DevOps?

(c) What is meant by the Just in Time production model and pull systems?

(d) What does lean mean in terms of muri and mura waste?

(e) What are work in progress (WIP) limits? How are they applied in software production?

