

### Task 1

Below is a set of statements that may be true or false. Some may even be both true and false at the same time. Indicate whether the statement is true or false and give a brief explanation.

- A user story does not have to be tested in the same sprint in which it is implemented.
- The product owner determines the work estimates for user stories.
- Sprint backlog tasks must be given work estimates
- The company\'s best development team is identified by comparing the velocity of the teams.
- When using agile methods, the software architecture is always designed during the first sprint
- A/B testing is a form of testing that takes place in production

### Task 2

The product owner of Copypizza\'s online store, which has become a global market leader, has defined the following user story, which is currently the only story in the product backlog:

To order a pizza, you must first log in to the site with your username, select the desired toppings from the CONTENT list in the database table, select the size of the pizza base, and then enter the delivery address (if it is not already stored in the CUSTOMERS database table), the desired delivery time, and selecting the payment method (which can be online banking, mobile pay, credit card, or any other payment method) and entering any promotional code. It is also worth noting that every tenth pizza is free for each user. Functionality must not slow down even during the busiest times, such as lunch specials.

However, the situation is not optimal in every way. Explain what the problem is and help the product owner fix the product backlog situation.

### Task 3

(a) What is meant by the external quality of software?

(b) What methods and techniques are used in agile software production projects to achieve sufficient external quality of software?

### Task

Copypizza\'s application development is organized as follows. The people involved in the development work are divided into five teams. Team A is responsible for implementing browser-side functionality, team B is responsible for implementing application logic on the server, team C is responsible for database maintenance and server installations, team D is responsible for testing the application, and team E is responsible for designing the application architecture.

The teams meet with the product owner every three months to demonstrate the functionality they have developed during the previous period and select tasks for the next three-month period.

The organization of Copy Pizza\'s application development work is not entirely optimal. You have just completed a Lean training course organized by Toyota. Describe the problems in Copy Pizza\'s development work and how it should be organized in accordance with the principles of Lean development.

### Task 5

Sample code to be examined in the task \[here\]\[https://github.com/mluukkai/copypizza\]

(a) What is meant by internal software quality?

(b) What are the problems with internal quality in the example code?

(c) Explain how you would refactor the example code by applying design patterns or other solutions appropriate to the situation.

