

### Task 1

Scrum defines a set of roles, artifacts, meetings, and rules. Describe the methods Scrum offers for solving the problems described below. It is not enough to just list the terms; explain what each Scrum solution entails and how it helps with the problem described.

- Silva and Jussi often argue about whether unit tests should be written for new features.\
  Quite often, Jami, the head of the company\'s marketing department, comes up with brilliant ideas that need to be implemented immediately, regardless of what is currently in progress.
- All too often, it turns out that a couple of developers, especially Kristian and Petrus, have each coded their own version of the same user story. Several days of work may go to waste.
- Sometimes it is unclear which stories should be done in a sprint; it depends a little on which of the company\'s managers you ask, especially since Luukkainen\'s opinion differs from that of the other managers.
- The same problems recur month after month in the project, e.g., Git is used haphazardly, tests work sometimes and sometimes they don\'t. The naming of classes and methods in the code is pretty random.
- Kalle thinks it\'s nice to be able to code in peace. The downside is that no one really knows when anything will be finished; sometimes it takes months.
- These sprints are nice. It\'s just a bit chaotic at times when no one knows what to do in the sprint, and it\'s a mystery how the implementation of different user stories will affect the existing code.
- We have a bit of a problem in that even though we often get everything implemented, we can\'t take it into production at the end of the sprint because the testing team in India works with a delay of several weeks.

### Task 2

Your friend has defined the following user story that describes the payment functionality of an online store. What are the good and bad points of the story, and what is missing? How could the story be improved?

When the products in the shopping cart are paid for (using a credit card, MobilePay, or other possible payment options), the delivery address must be entered in the ORDERS table in the database. The PRODUCTS table, which maintains the stock balances of the products, must also be updated. It is worth noting that sales are huge during Black Friday, but the software must remain fast even if there is a crazy spike in users. It is worth coding the option to specify how delivery is arranged, whether by post or another service such as UPS. This story must be implemented immediately, it is vital.

### Task 3

Are the following statements true or false?

- Software validation is done through unit testing.
- If users are really satisfied, the external quality of the software is probably fine.
- Sufficient test coverage can be ensured through exploratory testing
- A burn down chart can be used to estimate how many working hours coders still have available during the current sprint
- Compliance with the https://vm.fi/saavutettavuusdirektiivi is a non-functional requirement
- If a so-called minimal viable product is being developed, comprehensive automated tests are not usually performed on it
- Velocity can be used to estimate when the software or part of it will be completed
- Requirements are also documented in agile methods
- Code review is so waterfall-like that it does not belong in agile software development
- Scrum of Scrums is one way of trying to ensure that different teams within a company are able to work towards a common goal
- Incremental architecture ensures that the internal quality of the code remains intact
- The Lean Startup method prohibits technical debt

### Task 4

In the context of Lean, we talk about Just in Time (JIT) production and minimizing production cycle time.

Explain the benefits of a short cycle time in software production, how software production aims to shorten the cycle time, and what DevOps has to do with it.

Your answer should also explain what the terms Just in Time (JIT) production, production cycle time, and DevOps mean.

### Task 5

(a) What is meant by internal software quality? (1p)
(b) What are the problems with internal quality in the example code?

<!-- -->

(3) Explain how you would refactor the example code below, applying design patterns or other solutions appropriate to the situation.

<!-- -->

    public class UserStory {
        private int sprint;
        private String name;
        private int estimate;
        private String status;
        private List<String> tasks;
        public UserStory(String name, int sprint, int estimate, String status, List<String> tasks) {
            this.name = name;
            this.sprint = sprint;
            this.estimate = estimate;
            this.status = status;
            this.tasks = tasks;
        }
        public boolean done(){
           return status.equals("COMPLETED");
        }
        public void changeStatus(String status) {
            this.status = status;
        }
        public int estimate() {
            return estimate;
        }
        public String status() {
            return status;
        }
        public String name() {
            return name;
        }
    }

    public class BacklogReader {
        private String file;
        public BacklogReader(String file) {
            this.file = file;
        }
        public List<UserStory> readFromFile(){
            List<UserStory> items = new ArrayList<>();
            // read stories from file
            return items;
        }
        public void saveToFile(){
            // save stories to file
        }
    }

    public class Backlog {
        private List<UserStory> stories;
        private BacklogReader reader;
        public Backlog() {
            reader = new BacklogReader("tmc-cli");
            stories = reader.readFromFile();
        }
        public List<UserStory> completedStories() {
            ArrayList<UserStory> completed = new ArrayList<>();
            for (UserStory story : stories) {
                if ( story.done() ) {
                    completed.add(story);
                }
            }
            return completed;
        }
        public List<UserStory> epics() {
            ArrayList<UserStory> epicStories = new ArrayList<>();
            for (UserStory story : stories) {
                if ( story.estimate()>20 ) {
                    epicStories.add(story);
                }
            }
            return epicStories;
        }
        public String export(String format, boolean onlyRemaining) {
            String output = "";
            if ( format.equals("xml")){
                output = "<stories>";
            }
            for (UserStory story : stories) {
                if (onlyRemaining && !story.done() ) {
                    continue;
                }
                if ( format.equals("text")) {
                    output += story.name()+ " " + story.estimate()+ " " + story.status() + "\n";
                } else if (format.equals("xml"))   {
                    output += "<story><name>" + story.name() +
                                "</name><estimate>" + story.estimate() +
                                "</estimate><status>" + story.status() +
                              "</status><story>\n";
                } else {
                    throw new IllegalArgumentException("format not supported");
                }
            }
            if ( format.equals("xml")){
                output += "</stories>";
            }
            return output;
        }
        // other methods...
    }

